Not TODO:
1.No hero zero trades
2.On expiry day, post 1:30PM should not hold any positions of expiry day
3.Never ever average index options.
4.Never ever buy more than 1 quantity of stock options.


TODO:
1.Find the capital you are trading with and the profit you are looking for.
  once your profit target is reached, no matter how favour the market is do not trade. Either get out or use some part of the profit only to trade further.
  once that part of the profit is lost, STFU and get out.
2.Calculate vix and nifty/banknifty range
3.Open shivu's template for options monitoring



Stock options trading SOP:
1.Check the stock price 
2.Add both CE and PE positions in to watch list.
3.Check for the news related to the company
4.Check for the perfomance of stock in last one month
5.Consider weather market is bullish or bearish
6.Check the volume and then decide the quantities that can be bought 
7.If buying the stock option,make sure you have enough money for other trades and you capable of carrying this position for atlest a week
8.While buying check the depth up to 20, then decide at what price to buy atleat 0.1 less than the top buy value. Never buy at the price shown
9.Never buy more than 1 lot at first, but be open to average at loss or profit


Lessons:
1.I'm making profits 70% of the day yet losing money becase the amount lost in 30% days is way higher than profits made.
  why it is happening?
  am booking little when trend is going in favour but not doing the same with stop loss when its going aganist me.
  same thing is happening both with options hold for long time and even in scalping
2.A.One day i was holding a nifty position PE and was running at loss of -10K. Smart tutor suggested they are taking CE. So i exited PE at -10K and entered
  CE at this time. BUT it was in BN and not in nifty they were Bullish. This marked another -30K. so over all loss was -40K.
  Moral:When there is maximum loss, always get out before it doubles. i should not have let that go to -30k instead overall -20k i should have accepted 
        defeat and exit for the day.
  B.Similary another scenario where PE i was holding but it was told market was Bullish. Yet i continue to hold and ended up losing -50K.
  Moral: When market is aganist your views, its ok if you do not change the position but atleast exit the god damn position you are holding and stay mum.  
  Options A and Option B might be a little contradictory but you should know what is right and what has to be done based on risk appetitie and management.
3.No hero zero trades --> its only luck and i suck at it

