Vix: Volatality index
VIX, is one of the most common barometers of market sentiment
For traders, the VIX not only represents a useful tool for assessing risk, but also the opportunity to capitalise on volatility itself.
It was the first benchmark to quantify market expectations of volatility. But the index is forward looking, which means that it only shows the implied volatility of the S&P 500 (SPX) for the next 30 days.

https://www.ig.com/en/indices/what-is-vix-how-do-you-trade-it

Note:
 we have IV(implied volatality) for stock options. VIX is for index(indices) options only
 VIX of 12-18 is good and good for option buyers.During corona vix was 60

Scenario 1:
		Higher volatality means, more panic in the market which means market goes down which is kind of true but in reality it does not shows the 			direction of market but the market sentiment.So post corona even though the volatality is high , market was actually recovering.
Scenario 2: Lets say nifty fell by 300 points which means vix should have been increased but did not happen. why?
 		becase if you see broader market, its only heavy weight such as axis,hdfc,reliance which fell but mid cap and other stocks did not.



VIX india:
Lets say in NSE website currently vix is showing as 20.79%
Annually --> 20.79% --> That means market can go 20% up or down annually
How you will calculate montly or weekly or daily?
Monthly --> root(12) ie. 3.46 --> 20.79/3.46 = 6.1% .. Note when it is said one month, it is 30 trading sessions, not 30 days.
Weekly  --> root(52 weeks) ie. 7.12 --> 20.79/7.12 = 2.87%
Daily   --> root(365) ie.19.1 --> 20.79/19.1 = 1.1%

what does this 1.1% mean?
This mean today if nifty opens at 15000, range between which it would trade is 14860 to 15636... calculation is 15000/(1.1*100) = 136
You can write both put and call options beyond this range and make profit or
you can trade based on this range bound instinct



How vix is calculated:
India VIX is computed using the best bid and ask quotes of the out-of-the-money near and mid-month NIFTY option contracts which are traded on the F&O segment of NSE.
The index depicts the expected market volatility over the next 30 calendar days.

India VIX computation methodology
India VIX uses the computation methodology of CBOE, with suitable amendments to
adapt to the NIFTY options order book using cubic splines, etc
The factors considered in the computation of India VIX are mentioned below:
1) Time to expiry:
The time to expiry is computed in minutes instead of days in order to arrive at a level
of precision expected by professional traders.
2) Interest Rate:
The relevant tenure NSE MIBOR rate (i.e 30 days or 90 days) is being considered as
risk-free interest rate for the respective expiry months of the NIFTY option contracts
3) The forward index level:
India VIX is computed using out-of-the-money option contracts. Out-of-the-money
option contracts are identified using forward index level. The forward index level
helps in determining the at-the-money (ATM) strike which in turn helps in selecting
the option contracts which shall be used for computing India VIX. The forward index
level is taken as the latest available price of NIFTY future contract for the respective
expiry month.
 “VIX” is a trademark of Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated (“CBOE”) and Standard & Poor’s
has granted a license to NSE, with permission from CBOE, to use such mark in the name of the India VIX
and for purposes relating to the India VIX.
4) Bid-Ask Quotes
The strike price of NIFTY option contract available just below the forward index
level is taken as the ATM strike. NIFTY option Call contracts with strike price above
the ATM strike and NIFTY option Put contracts with strike price below the ATM
strike are identified as out-of-the-money options and best bid and ask quotes of such
option contracts are used for computation of India VIX. In respect of strikes for
which appropriate quotes are not available, values are arrived through interpolation
using a statistical method namely “Natural Cubic Spline”
After identification of the quotes, the variance (volatility squared) is computed
separately for near and mid month expiry. The variance is computed by providing
weightages to each of the NIFTY option contracts identified for the computation, as
per the CBOE method. The weightage of a single option contract is directly
proportional to the average of best bid-ask quotes of the option contract and inversely
proportional to the option contract’s strike price
Computation of India VIX
The variance for the near and mid month expiry computed separately are interpolated to
get a single variance value with a constant maturity of 30 days to expiration. The square
root of the computed variance value is multiplied by 100 to arrive at the India VIX value. 









